# offckb-template

This is a Minimal Template for CKB Full-Stack Dapps generated by [offckb](https://github.com/RetricSu/offckb).

Offckb does not do the magic. It just wraps the new CKB smart contract template and the CKB javascript Dapp framework into one mono-repo. Under the hook, it uses:

- [ckb-scripts-template](https://github.com/cryptape/ckb-script-templates) for smart contract development
- [remix-vite](https://remix.run/tutorials/blog) and [Lumos](https://github.com/ckb-js/lumos) for frontend development

## Smart contract development

By default, this template comes with a single simple smart contract `always-success`: `contracts/always-success/src/main.rs`.

add a new smart-contract:

```sh
make generate
```

build smart-contract:

```sh
make build
```

run test:

```sh
make test
```

For more detail, check [ckb-script-templates]: https://github.com/cryptape/ckb-script-templates

## Dapp frontend development

first, enter the frontend workspace:

```sh
cd frontend
```

start the app:

```sh
yarn && yarn dev
```

change the CKB blockchain network:

```sh
export NETWORK=devnet # or testnet, mainnet
yarn dev
```

or

```sh
NETWORK=devnet yarn dev
```

## Deploy to devnet/testnet with offckb

Once you build your smart contracts, you can deploy them to CKB blockchain with [ckb-cli](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-cli) or any other tools.

If you want to test them in devnet/testnet blockchain, then `offckb` might be the ideal selection.

`offckb` will look for the `offckb.config.ts` file to read config information. so you will need to enter the frontend workspace to do the instruction:

```sh
cd frontend
offckb deploy --network devnet
```

If successfully deployed, you will see the deploy script info for your smart contract recorded in the `offckb.config.ts` file. You can then directly import and use your smart contract in your frontend Dapp like this:

```ts
import offckb from "offckb.config";
import { CellDep } from "@ckb-lumos/lumos";

const lumosConfig = offckb.lumosConfig;
const myContractDep: CellDep = {
  outPoint: {
    txHash: lumosConfig.SCRIPTS.YOUR_SCRIPT_NAME!.TX_HASH,
    index: lumosConfig.SCRIPTS.YOUR_SCRIPT_NAME!.INDEX,
  },
  depType: lumosConfig.SCRIPTS.YOUR_SCRIPT_NAME!.DEP_TYPE,
};
```

Every time you deploy a new version of your smart contracts, those script infos will be updated by `offckb` in the `offckb.config.ts` and work out-of-box in your frontend.

You can also deploy smart contracts to the CKB Testnet like this:

```sh
cd frontend
offckb deploy --network testnet
```

and start your frontend Dapp targeting Testnet:

```sh
cd frontend
NETWORK=testnet yarn dev
```

Note that the `mainnet` network is not supported in `offckb` since `offckb` is focusing on building a friendly development environment for CKB. To gain better security, it is recommended to use production tools like [ckb-cli](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-cli) to deploy smart contracts and do transactions for the CKB mainnet.
