# Build a Simple Lock

A a full-stack dApp example to showcase the development of CKB with scripts(smart contract) and the frontend. Read the step-by-step [tutorial](https://docs.nervos.org/docs/dapp/simple-lock) to understand how it works.

We'll create a Lock Script named hash_lock to secure some CKB tokens and build a web interface for users to transfer tokens from this hash_lock.

The hash_lock project involves specifying a hash in the Script's script_args. To unlock it, users must provide the preimage that matches the hash.

`Hash = blake2b_256(preimage)`

> [!WARNING]
> Although this toy lock example isn't intended for production, it's an excellent starting point for learning the basics.

### Is the Hash_Lock Safe to Use?

The short answer is **NO**. The hash_lock is not secure for guarding your CKB tokens. Some of you might already know the reason, but here are some points to consider:

- **Miner Front-running**: Since the preimage value is revealed in the witness, once you submit the transaction to the blockchain, miners can see this preimage and construct a new transaction to transfer the tokens to their addresses before you do.
- **Balance Vulnerability**: Once you transfer part of the balance from the hash_lock address, the preimage value is revealed on-chain. This makes the remaining tokens locked in the hash_lock vulnerable since anyone who sees the preimage can steal them.

Even though using a hash and preimage is too simple to be a secure Lock Script, it’s a great starting point for learning. The goal is to understand how CKB Scripts works and gain experience with CKB development.

## offckb-template

This is a Minimal Template for CKB Full-Stack Dapps generated by [offckb](https://github.com/ckb-ecofund/offckb).

Offckb does not do the magic. It just wraps the new CKB smart contract template and the CKB javascript Dapp framework into one mono-repo. Under the hook, it uses:

- [ckb-scripts-template](https://github.com/cryptape/ckb-script-templates) for smart contract development
- [next-js](https://nextjs.org/docs?utm_source=create-next-app&utm_medium=appdir-template&utm_campaign=create-next-app) and [Lumos](https://github.com/ckb-js/lumos) for frontend development

## Smart contract development

By default, this template comes with a single simple smart contract `hello-world`: `contracts/hello-world/src/main.rs`.

The smart contract is written in Rust lang. In order to develop, the following dependencies are required:

- `git`, `make`, `sed`, `bash`, `sha256sum` and others Unix utilities.
- `Rust` with `riscv64 target`: `rustup target add riscv64imac-unknown-none-elf`
- `Clang 16+`
- `cargo-generate`

Check out the ckb-script-templates for more [detail](https://github.com/cryptape/ckb-script-templates/blob/main/README.md#dependencies)

### Usage

add a new smart-contract:

```sh
make generate
```

build smart-contract:

```sh
make build
```

run test:

```sh
make test
```

For more detail, check out [ckb-script-templates](https://github.com/cryptape/ckb-script-templates)

## dApp frontend development

first, enter the frontend workspace:

```sh
cd frontend
```

start the app:

```sh
npm i && npm run dev
```

change the CKB blockchain network:

edit `.env` file:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_NETWORK=devnet # devnet, testnet or mainnet
```

## Deploy to devnet/testnet with offckb

Once you build your smart contracts, you can deploy them to CKB blockchain with [ckb-cli](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-cli) or any other tools.

If you want to test them in devnet/testnet blockchain, then `offckb` might be the ideal selection.

`offckb` will look for the `offckb.config.ts` file to read config information. so you will need to enter the frontend workspace to do the instruction:

```sh
cd frontend
offckb deploy --network devnet
```

If successfully deployed, you will see the deploy script info for your smart contract recorded in the `offckb.config.ts` file. You can then directly import and use your smart contract in your frontend Dapp like this:

```ts
import offckb from 'offckb.config';
import { CellDep } from '@ckb-lumos/lumos';

const lumosConfig = offckb.lumosConfig;
const myContractDep: CellDep = {
  outPoint: {
    txHash: lumosConfig.SCRIPTS.YOUR_SCRIPT_NAME!.TX_HASH,
    index: lumosConfig.SCRIPTS.YOUR_SCRIPT_NAME!.INDEX,
  },
  depType: lumosConfig.SCRIPTS.YOUR_SCRIPT_NAME!.DEP_TYPE,
};
```

Every time you deploy a new version of your smart contracts, those script infos will be updated by `offckb` in the `offckb.config.ts` and work out-of-box in your frontend.

You can also deploy smart contracts to the CKB Testnet like this:

```sh
cd frontend
offckb deploy --network testnet
```

and start your frontend Dapp targeting Testnet:

edit `.env` file:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_NETWORK=testnet # devnet, testnet or mainnet
```

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

Note that the `mainnet` network is not supported in `offckb` since `offckb` is focusing on building a friendly development environment for CKB. To gain better security, it is recommended to use production tools like [ckb-cli](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-cli) to deploy smart contracts and do transactions for the CKB mainnet.
